- [Narrator] To deploy the correct versions
of our microservices onto our Kubernetes cluster.
We'll need to update our resource manifests
with the latest container images built by the CI pipeline.
To automate this,
we'll use another Jenkins pipeline
that's found within the deploy project,
inside the exercise files for this lesson.
This pipeline will be shared by each of the microservices
inside of our application and used to deploy them.
Let's walk through each part of this script
to learn exactly what it does.
The script includes an options block
that configure some unique behaviors for this pipeline.
The first option,
disable concurrent builds prevents the pipeline
from executing more than one run at a time.
This is important because it prevents conflicts
between our deployments.
The next option override index triggers,
prevents the pipeline from executing
when a new commit is made to the deploy repository.
This is necessary because the pipeline itself,
will commit changes to the manifests in the repository.
And we can't have those commits triggering another build.
It will create a loop.
The pipeline is also configured to accept parameters
that are passed to it by the CI pipelines
for each microservice.
These parameters are used to update the manifests
with the latest container image.
The parameters received by the pipeline include,
the GitHub organization name,
the image name,
and its version.
These are all provided by the jobs
that trigger the pipeline.
The pipeline also declares one environment variable
that holds the SSH URL to our deploy repository
within GitHub.
To keep things flexible,
we use the GitHub org parameter
that's passed into the pipeline to construct this URL.
Now let's talk about the work that this pipeline performs
within its stage.
The first step in the stage uses the get plugin
to pull the main branch
from the deploy repository
where all of our manifests are found.
The git plugin requires us to provide the URL
of the deploy repository
and an SSH key that's used to authenticate with GitHub
when all the files are pulled from the repo.
After we've pulled the manifests from the repository,
we then configure git
to identify the pipeline as the committer.
That's done in these two commands.
That's necessary because in later stages,
the pipeline's going to perform a commit.
The changes that the pipeline will commit are made here,
where we use customized to update the container image found
within our manifests.
To do this,
we use the customized edit set image command.
This command leverages our image name,
parameter and our version parameter
to update the version for the container image.
Once we've updated that version inside of our manifests,
we commit those changes to our local repository.
Then we use the SSH agent plugin
and an SSH key
in order to authenticate with GitHub
when we push those changes
to the main branch of our repository.
Once those changes are pushed,
our deployed repository in GitHub,
will contain the latest container image
that was built by the CI pipeline.
Now that we've talked through the pipeline,
let's go ahead
and we'll push the Jenkinsfile over to GitHub.
To do that,
I'm going to head to a terminal and I'll stage our changes.
Then I'll go ahead and create a new commit
and for the message,
I'll just say adding the new pipeline.
Once I've created the commit,
I can go ahead and push those changes over to GitHub.
Now this will cause Jenkins to pick up the pipeline
when it scans our organization and then all tempt
to execute it.
Now I'm going to warn you.
It's going to fail,
but let's go ahead and we'll do the push anyway,
and then we'll head over to Jenkins.
Soon we should see the organization folder scan,
pick up the new pipeline.
Okay.
There it went.
Let's go ahead and we'll refresh our page.
There we see the new pipeline.
Let's navigate into it and we can see it has failed,
but let's check it out.
So I'll click on the main branch
and then go into our first build.
And then within the console output,
you can see that the pipeline failed
because we haven't passed any parameters to it.
We'll need to create the trigger within the CI pipeline
to pass those parameters.
Let's pick it up there in our next lesson.